if there's anything to know it is that
my world has burned a few times and that
I have risen every time both of us thank
God for B number
International phenomenon has led
marketing and branding at some of the
biggest companies in the world who have
you worked for Apple Netflix Pepsi Spike
Lee Eve was walking by with a script
under his arm and I took a red pen to it
I was a receptionist I really did think
I was getting fired that day but
intuition and creativity and following
your gut made me be successful
oftentimes we're in these situations
that aren't serving us and we're
thinking about how the other person is
going to feel you are going to be
unsatisfied with your life that is the
scariest thing be selfish in your life
in your career I didn't want anything to
stop me but I was about five months
pregnant when very quickly things
descended into health I had a condition
for the pregnancy is like attacking you
and the doctor says to my husband Peter
you save her or you save the baby which
one is it she didn't survive
it was the beginning of the big
fractures in our relationship we were no
longer a team a few years later he gets
diagnosed with cancer after you've
separated we had to make a choice to
have the conversations which were about
forgiveness anger and misunderstanding
really did not matter we're going to be
together
to the last heartbeat
before this episode starts I have a
small favor to ask from you two months
ago 74 of people that watch this channel
didn't subscribe we're now down to 69 my
goal is 50 so if you've ever liked any
of the videos we've posted if you like
this channel can you do me a quick favor
and hit the Subscribe button it helps
this channel more than you know and the
bigger the channel gets as you've seen
the bigger the guests get thank you and
enjoy this episode
[Music]
yes you've overcome so much you referred
to yourself often as a phoenix yes how
do you describe yourself as that so take
me back because there's a certain
there's a certain distinctive Brilliance
and
character to you that
I know isn't ax I know isn't
common
and that that uniqueness is what makes
you brilliant so take me right back to
the beginning what do I need to know
about you to understand the person sat
in front of me going right back to the
start oh gosh well as a phoenix
there isn't just one Rising
you know for me so if there's anything
to know it is that my world has burned a
few times
and that I have risen every time now I
wouldn't say that like I Rise right away
it's not that kind of Miracle it's the
dusting off it's the letting the
feathers grow back it is the can I fly
again let me try oh this really hurts
let me sit down try one more time and
then I'm off
you know so that means that it's
everything from
being you know five years old and living
in Ghana and my father being in politics
and the government being overthrown in
political uh political coup uh and
having to uproot ourselves out of Ghana
I mean that my whole world burned at
that point or it is when I was 12 and we
had lived in numerous places in Africa
and then moved to Colorado Springs
Colorado and again the world shifted and
burned and I'd have to recreate myself
those first 12 years
when you look back on the most
significant fingerprints they left on
you and your character what are those
hmm
um
probably my ability to
survive like get to know people quickly
understand who is a friend and who's a
foe quickly like being able to read
people
I would say almost immediately I don't
need a lot of proof you know I can tell
on like the first question
whether or not you have good intentions
for me so I've got intentions fee yes
okay good
your desire to
um be able to relate to the person in
front of you is that also linked to
because it was clear when I was reading
about your story that you had a very
early love of culture yeah and just like
what's going on in the world yeah like
you know yeah but that was survival it
wasn't that wasn't um you know this
battle of like nature versus nurture I
think I have some of it naturally my
curiosity about people and the things
that surround me in pop culture
um
but it was certainly nurture it nurtured
you know this idea of like well I have
to understand everything that's
happening in this Society so I can talk
to you so I can seem normal to you you
know so that meant that like okay I have
to understand American football
inside and out Friday Night Lights were
a big deal in Colorado so I need to
understand what's happening in the
fields I don't annoy people with
cheering at the wrong time or music
understanding what was happening at the
time and
being able to sing along to lyrics or
argue with somebody in the hallway about
my favorite pop star you know or fashion
make sure that the crease on my jeans
was perfect or the way I folded it over
and doubled it up was right you know all
of those things are nurtured and so
it created a
lifelong student of Pop Culture so it
means that every time that something new
would happen oh I'd be the first on it
I'd be the one who'd be like oh let me
figure out what that is I need to
understand all of it because should I be
in a situation
where I'm in front of somebody who
really likes that thing I want to be
able to talk to them I want to be able
for them to understand that I understand
what they're talking about I'm not so
strange
and that that explains in large part why
you pursued creativity and marketing or
at least while you ended up there but do
you think it's hard to be yourself when
you're trying to survive
hmm
yeah I think so were you being yourself
as you reflect on that chapter of your
life the pre-18
left of my own devices I probably
wouldn't have I probably would have
turned out
to be too much of a people pleaser but
thankfully I had a mother
who was well both my parents but my
mother in particular was very focused on
making sure that
all of us girls I have three younger
sisters understood our worth
and the way that we contribute you know
so in the process so imagine I'm 12. and
I'm here trying to understand all the
American things
and I come home and I finally broken
through the inner circle of the cool
girls
and they've now said they want to come
over to my house and here I am in front
of my mother my very ghanian very proud
mother and I'm saying I'm gonna need you
to buy some pizza get some Fanta up in
here okay like french fries I don't know
what it is get all the American foods
chicken nuggets the things they like
and she's like absolutely not
they're going to eat Fufu
they're gonna have some pepper soup
they're gonna eat with their hands
because that's what we do in this house
and I'm sitting there like oh you've got
to be kidding my whole like are you like
you want to destroy me like I'm just
learning how to get along with these
people
you know and the lesson there and by the
way she didn't she wasn't like cryptic
about it she was very direct very
straightforward and she was like when
you go to their house
you do the things they want to do when
they come to your house
they do the things you want to do she
was did not mince words and at 12 she
said that maybe I couldn't have
articulated it then but I certainly
understand it very clearly now which is
that I had to understand my own worth
like what am I bringing to the table not
just about what they have and what
they're trying to do and they're trying
to communicate but what is it that I'm
bringing so that the pride I have in my
own culture in my own skin in my own
uniqueness is as important as the things
that they like
regardless of apparent consequence oh
yeah yeah just throughout the whether
it's the corporate world or our
professional lives there's always an
apparent consequence which holds us back
oh absolutely do you think being the
oldest of four four sisters right yeah
do you think being the oldest of Four
Sisters shaped your personality
absolutely yes I'm the boss
no question about it but also that was
how our household ran you know it's like
my my dad made no small uh no small
beans of saying like you know reminding
me constantly that you're the oldest you
have to set the tone you you lead the
example you know your sisters will
follow you he says that today I think he
said that to me last week yeah
oh my God
dad he is the type of person who absorbs
information and holds it and then can
spit it back at you he doesn't need a
lot of time to understand Concepts or
things I mean he's a self-taught
musician he didn't go to high school he
didn't go to middle school or high
school but has two phds and my dad um
has very very high standards
so that is the person that I grew up
with what impression did he give you
about what success was and looked like
and that and also in doing so what
failure was
success meant Financial Independence
and financial success yeah you need to
make a certain amount of money in order
to
have the nice things
you know the nice house a nice car the
vacations all the things
um success also meant big titles
you know so early on in my career
um
I remember wanting to take a job that
had a lesser title than the one I was
leaving
and my dad hated that
you know he was just like
but you're taking steps backwards and my
thought was like well it's not really
because the responsibilities are
different and better and they're going
to get me closer to the place I want to
go you don't understand that but I
understand that but to him that was
failure and so that certainly
changed the way that I think about
you know my own upward Mobility that for
some time I did Chase titles
you know but the truth of matter is that
a title isn't going to give you power
you know the title doesn't actually give
you anything
and it's like what I've learned about
leadership is that you have to convince
the people who are around you that you
are right that you have a good idea and
that they should input into that thing
and then they will follow you you think
just because you have a chief title that
somebody is going to follow you or not
think you're stupid
there are plenty of people out there who
have you know that title and teams who
don't respect them
and so for me I think those early
lessons were
they had their good things and they're
bad things you know and the good things
were that me understanding that um
my dad's understanding of what success
looked like in terms of titles was not
necessarily the only way what does give
you power then so if the title doesn't
give you power what does give you
influence influence
yeah being well there's a couple of
things
complicated question it's like
Talent alone doesn't do it
again met many talented people who
couldn't lead anybody
you know and you have many leaders who
have no Talent
so it's like a it's a interesting
combination of those two things like you
have to be able to be on the ground and
do the work
you also have to convince other people
so that's where the influence comes in
that the idea that you have or the way
that you're saying we should go is the
right thing
and then get them to follow you and then
you must execute
you actually have to be right yeah you
know and then if you do that enough
times oh then it becomes unquestionable
you know that's when the reputation
precedes you that's when you know at
least for me it's like I get into a new
job and people expect a certain thing
it's like oh I've seen you do that over
there or I had a friend who worked for
you at this place and they said you did
yeah your first sort of real significant
career move seemed to be this encounter
with Spike Lee's agency yeah so for
people that don't know who is Spike Lee
okay and how did that happen
Spike Lee is blackity blackity black
first of all
uh no but he he is a
um film director really and his core
filmmaker let's call it that because he
certainly produces and does other things
and writes
um but he has a an advertising agency in
New York uh when I was there was on
Madison Avenue so Madison Avenue is like
the place for advertising in the world
right it's um the place where the show
Mad Men was made from so ddb is one of
the biggest agencies and Spike had a JV
with them what brought you to New York
in the first place
um
curiosity I was I graduated from
Wesleyan University which was in
Middletown Connecticut and um it was
just time to apply to med school and I
really didn't want to and New York was
right there it was like an hour and a
half from school and I really didn't
have a plan yeah I just I just went
trying to escape what I thought was my
destiny
and like many people say I think
sometimes in this business I kind of
fell into this but I think my destiny
actually came to find me that's what it
was I opened up
and allowed for something greater that I
didn't even know was possible to find me
instead
so many people are in in that chapter of
their life where they're trying to find
their Destiny or trying to help trying
to
figure out a way to let their Destiny
find them yeah
when you look back and connect the dots
as to how your career came to be and you
think about that first moment where you
you know you went to New York and then
you were on Madison Avenue you're
working for Spike Lee and you find you
find your destiny where it finds you if
you're if your daughter
um comes to you and says mum what advice
have you got for me on finding my
destiny like what have I got to do to
actively oh
have you ever heard that statement like
let go and let God have you heard that
before no it's a very Christian thing I
feel like in the like black church
there's a lot of that let go I'm like
God you know as if God is just gonna
just sprinkle magic dust over you you
know and I'm like no I don't I don't
necessarily believe that just as a plain
statement
I think the letting go is an action
you know it's not surrender it's like
you just lay down and it's gonna find
you you're not gonna find your destiny
sitting on the couch you know the
letting go for me is like the letting go
of preconceived ideas about what it is
that
you are going to do
letting go of
sometimes you're like trying to do
something and keep hitting a wall
you're just like oh if I just hit it one
more time it's gonna break
sometimes it's like you know that's a
cement wall right if you just move five
feet to the right
is actually plaster
and you're gonna go right through it
you know it's like sometimes it's the
letting go of this thought that you had
which is like oh I'm going to do this
thing right here
is the magic and I'll tell you this look
it didn't just happen at that stage in
my life it's happening right now
where you know I'm like okay well I
think I am done with my corporate CMO
work
I believe I'm finished
so I'm going to
let go of it I'm not going to be
actively looking for the next CMO job
I want whatever is coming for me
I'm gonna allow space for it now doesn't
mean I'm just sitting around
I'm also you know trying to polish other
skills I'm trying to
create you know because perhaps the next
thing that's coming is somewhere more in
that space I can feel it like in my
spirit and that
understanding of like your intuition and
if you're listening to it it's like a
magnet it's gonna just draw you closer
to the thing that you're supposed to do
and it has happened every single time
like every time without fail like every
job every move I've made hasn't been
because somebody said oh you know what
this makes logical sense one plus one
equals two
sometimes I'm just like but it's not
math though you know it's physics
because it's not it's not the addition
it's a subtraction I'm just going to say
here
and I'm gonna get up and I'm gonna go
talk to this person and I'm gonna talk
to that person I'm gonna sit back down
again and I'm going to write this thing
out and then
like magic because I don't know how else
to describe it it's like the destiny
appears I'm telling you every time it
has happened every single time even when
people were like oh that is never gonna
happen like you're wasting your time I
don't know why you'd go over there and
do that I'm like
um I don't know something something
inside I'm telling you telling me that
this is the way to go I'm gonna go over
there
every time it's worked
but but do you believe so there's a lot
there for me
there's a lot that I'm interested in
there do you believe because I want to
be clear are you because some people
hear that and go love that everything
happens for a reason I'm gonna chill and
my fate is pre-written and it's coming
for me
um both said all I got to do is wait and
it's gonna because everything happens to
a reason it's pre-written so I just got
it
no no no no
this is gonna start banging on the table
no no no if I just chill here no no
don't chill in here okay
I think you're probably talking about
energy I'm not one of those chilling
here type people anyway you know
um and I don't believe things are
pre-written actually like for me the
idea of Destiny isn't that something is
already predetermined for you I think
you create your destiny also you know
meaning that like look there was a movie
in the in the late 90s called sliding
doors star Gwyneth Paltrow
um the concept is basically like
you know if you're running for the train
and you catch it you know you jump
inside
you have one destiny if the door is
close you still stand on platform then
you have to catch the next train it
takes you to a different Destiny that's
the concept right it is what I also
believe which is that like my destiny is
not pre-written but the movements that I
make are what lead me to the thing
that's actually for me you know and so
it's a constant evolution
so I don't believe that you have to sit
and wait for it I think your constant
movement your constant Discovery is
actually what then brings the destiny to
you so this isn't about predetermined
anything or just like let me just chill
out on like I said you can't sit on the
couch and expect your destiny to come
for you so it's not reading my horoscope
no disrespect to the tarot card readers
constantly creating our destiny you know
that this life that we're living these
experiences that people were meeting
people you're in relationships with
it happens because there's a certain
action that you take that leads you to
that thing now it's your choice whether
or not you take it and then that's when
the whole intuition thing comes up for
me right because I'm like now you may
have caused a lot of action and then you
have a couple of choices in front of you
where are you going
which one is calling you
and then you know what people like to do
they want to write Pro and column lists
they want to ask people for advice do
you think I should do this or should I
do that both of these look good
why are you asking other people they
don't know
they're not they're not living your life
they don't have the the whole Destiny
they have their own thing
why are you asking them
and if you got quiet for a second and
heard your intuition
but then again sometimes people scared
right because it's telling you do
something that you probably don't want
to do you're a little scared of it
and then you're going to choose the
wrong thing
it's hard to hear your intuition when
George
is
very loudly telling you yes George being
a father yes and everyone can relate
there's there's always an external voice
which is very loud whether it's social
expectation or Instagram or George yeah
saying that this is the right thing to
do so like how do you tune into your
intuition and out of George
it's like any muscle
you know it's like look we all have
biceps
but some people's biceps are enormous
thank you
that was good that was that was super
smooth that was really nice
um but it is like any muscle you know
you gotta work it
you've got to listen to it you have to
make it Brave to talk to you you know I
I kind of feel like um it's like that
friend
now this is not about multiple
personalities but you know it's like
that friend who's talking to you inside
your head you know and like if you keep
dissing it and keep being like shut up
no that's a bad idea if you keep doing
that that voice can get quieter and
quieter what makes you think is gonna
ever be like listen Bose I told you no
look my intuition is so loud oh there's
no way oh I meet people and we'll be
like that person not for me
and no
by the way somebody else will be like oh
that is a very powerful person you know
they'll introduce you to this other
person or oh they're so smart they've
done this and that and that and that
not for me nah so I'm not I'm not even
going to engage
like my intuition is that strong I trust
it a hundred percent because you've had
to train it right yes yes I've had to
I've had to allow it to lead me is that
because of what you said earlier about
the survival and that pattern
recognition is developed now where you
can kind of you see a couple of cues
your intuition goes oh we met this
person a couple of times yes yes that's
part of it for sure
if I've had
to listen to my intuition
allow it to lead me even when other
people were like no whether it was my
dad or a friend or a mentor a boss
you know when they've been like um no
that's not the thing you want to do you
should do this this is this would be
more successful for you and then my
intuition was like actually I don't
think so I think you need to go this way
it is so hard I'm not pretending as if
like this is the easy thing where it's
like I'll just listen to your intuition
be fine
thing is dumb hard
you know it's like look because
sometimes the logic
makes a lot more sense yeah than your
intuition
and so I'm not saying that it's easy but
it is the only choice if you want to be
successful and successful to me these
days means that I am happy and at peace
and enjoying the thing I'm doing it's no
longer about the title or the house or
the thing like do I have freedom
oh man like and freedom isn't just like
I can do whatever the hell I want
freedom is that like I can be working on
a campaign and not sleep for three days
because I'm so excited about it
that's the kind of Freedom I'm talking
about like really enjoying the things
that I'm doing
and if I am listening to my intuition
it's going to lead me to those
opportunities that allow me to have that
kind of experience with people or with
jobs or whoever
is such an important question I don't
think people ask themselves there which
is what is your definition of success
and I know it's kind of kind of like a
fluffy question or whatever else but
once you have that as your North Star it
completely changes your your like
direction of travel right so like that
central question I think and everyone
listening to this now like like what is
your what is your truly your definition
of success because if you don't if
you're not clear on it someone else is
going to write that definition for you
yes and it might be George you know what
I mean yes or or anybody yeah or someone
else or Instagram might write it for you
or your partner and you're gonna you're
gonna go down that path and find
yourself lost oh my and it will just be
a feeling inside your chest that says
well we made a wrong turning every time
you know sometimes that shows up in the
Sunday scaries oh my God yeah it shows
up there we're having a conversation
about this yesterday on Sunday we're
like yeah isn't it strange that it's
Monday tomorrow and none of us have it's
not crossed any of our minds exactly or
freaked out about it yeah God it's like
man when I when I started recognizing
that Sunday scaries were tied to my
wrong turns
guess who jumped into the driver's seat
real quick me
you know it's like look and again we're
not saying we're not making lighter than
me like oh this is so easy just change
direction you know but it's so helpful
when you recognize it and then you're
like oh okay now I can do something
about this
it was like right isn't that the first
step of like any problem solving is to
recognize the problem
do you think life like Sunday scaries is
a signal
and it's a signal and it's a very
important signal and it's screaming at
you
so loud it's so loud and the thing is
that think about Sunday scaries in
relationship to anything in your life
um when you are in a relationship let's
say romantic and you have to go hang out
with that person
and you're not feeling so cute about it
might be time for you to reevaluate
this relationship is good for you you
know it's like you should be feeling the
like oh I really want to go do this
thing with this person you know and for
me it's not even about length of time
because you know marriage is not
something where it's like people tell
you all the time it's so hard and it's
like you know you'll fall out of love
with this person and then fall back in
love with them and it's like I'm not
talking about like the fickleness of
your everyday feelings I'm talking about
like the consistency of a mood that you
are in when you are in the presence of
that person
like do you feel great do you have
ickiness when you're with them
like that that's a that's a Sunday scary
that you need to watch out for so it's
not just about like am I gonna wake up
and go to work tomorrow at a job I hate
I apply that to everything in my life
and that's the kind of Freedom that I
want in my life that like I don't engage
with people that I feel the ickiness
with
there's so many throughout your
experience of arriving in New York and
then working with Spike Lee and um
there's so many really interesting
moments that sort of categorize
and
provide clues as to how you got here
today one of those early moments was
when you're in New York and Spike Lee
puts the the script on your desk yes
because that is for me that is for me a
really clear it's almost like a like a
fork in the road you could have done one
thing or another thing and the choice
you made in that seems to be quite
pivotal can you tell me about that yes
so
interesting it wasn't just that he put
the script on a desk he was walking by
with a script under his arm and as I
shared I'm you know I love to read and I
know that Spike writes with a very black
point of view about the African-American
experience and I was fascinated by that
and so as soon as I saw it I was like
I mean this must be something
interesting that he's either writing or
reading I don't I want to I want to be
part of it what was your job there at
the time I was the assistant actually
not even the assistant I was I was
answering the phone and I was a
receptionist okay at his agency a
temporary receptionist I didn't even
have the job yet I was only filling in
and um but it felt there was a little
bit of naivete in it you know and that
like I don't know if
15 years ago even if I saw a spike
walking past my desk I would have been
like hey what are you reading can I read
that
because I would have used all my logic
to say oh he's so important whatever
he's holding there he needs he's not
going to give it to you so why even ask
I probably would have explained it to
myself that way by the time there was a
little bit of that naivete brashness
arrogance even you know where I was just
like oh whatever he's reading I want to
read and so that's what I asked him just
said what do you have
you know and he said he said his script
for Bamboozled and I was like okay what
can I read it
and he looked at me incredulously
and he was like sure here you go have it
back to me in three days and let me know
what you think and of course he had a
smirk on his face and so did the office
everybody who overheard the conversation
and I really didn't understand what that
meant but of course in hindsight I
understood that it was such a
complicated piece of writing that he
probably didn't think I would finish it
one or have anything to add
and I took a red pen to it a literal red
pen he likes to tell the story now that
like you know he gave this receptionist
his script and I came back three days
later with markups and notes in the
margins said you know I think that this
dialogue here could
be fussed out a little bit I didn't
understand what happened between these
two characters
you know and he was just like
what you mocked up my script
and I was just like oh God I didn't I
didn't know man I thought I really did
think I was getting fired that day and
uh he went into his office slammed the
door
I sat there man I'm telling you I have
my purse with me and I was just sitting
there waiting for him to open up the
office so that he could tell me I was
fired and meanwhile I'm thinking in the
back of my head my dad's gonna kill me
because I'm not even supposed to be in
this job I have a college degree my
receptionist at this office anyway
and then he opened the door after what
felt like 17 hours it was probably just
you know 30 minutes
and that's when I got the job he was
like you made some good notes you should
stay
how old are you
22. so you're 22 and you um take a red
pen to one of the most famous film
directors work yeah and that gets you
the job yes
what what's the lesson there oh it
changed my entire life oh that changed
my entire life I've had a few inflection
points in my life that is absolutely one
of them without that moment
I don't know and maybe at some other
point I would have learned it maybe it
would have come to me anyway
um but I'm so glad it came to me then
that
there is no one who knows more about
anything than you do it just doesn't
exist like look I'm not saying you
should go ahead and try to do like open
heart surgery
maybe don't do that you know but if you
are the patient
getting counseled by your doctor
and they say you know what I think we're
gonna have to do open heart surgery
but you feel like hey look I don't know
that you understand all the symptoms
that I'm trying to discuss with you and
that uh you seem to just get by a bunch
of these things that I've just said
I'm gonna have to go for a second
opinion that's the kind of belief I have
in myself
you know where I'm just like I'm gonna
question you even though you're the
expert and say I don't know because you
really didn't pay attention to what I
was saying so let me just go and try and
talk to somebody else that that moment
when Spike said sure go for it and I
went for it and then he said I have some
good ideas
come on like you just said he's one of
the most brilliant filmmakers of all
time
he will be in the animals of History
and he thought as a 22 year old I made
some good points on a script that is one
of his most difficult to read
you can't tell me [__]
it's hard to and for anything or
anyone's one do that that conviction and
evidence right that he gave you in that
moment yeah yeah yeah but I feel like
also
I learned something as a leader from him
in that moment
that
there aren't people on my team that I
dismiss
for lack of tenure
or understanding
you know that there are so many people
who can contribute to an idea to a
campaign who can challenge your strategy
without having
more knowledge than you do
of the thing you know what I'm saying
that like there are junior people on the
team that you should ask their opinion
because they're probably going to look
at it from a different perspective than
you ever would
and they might say something that
changes the entire direction of the
thing you're doing and you should listen
to them
sometimes it's hard for those people to
speak up right yes because of that yes
but that's why again the lesson from
that moment is that like when he says
sure
as a leader why would I not say sure
to somebody or make the room for them to
be able to speak up
you know I've been I've been known in my
teams to I'm like a teacher I'll call on
people
you know and not to make them feel badly
but just allow space you know see
somebody who looks like they're and
again this comes down to like some of
those lessons from when I was 12 reading
people body language seeing somebody's
itching to jump in the conversation but
they can't find a space because that
knucklehead over there talks too much
we've all been in those meetings you
know and then just being like hey did
you did you have something to say you
know did you want to contribute to this
you ever thought about this and then
sometimes people be like oh no no I no
they'll get shy you know where like
they'll I can start to see them like
panic and I'm like okay no problem but
if you do
just let me know
you know just give them a second to be
able to gather themselves or sometimes
it you know they'll be like Yes actually
I just I just wanted to say
and they'll contribute and you know
sometimes the contribution is great and
sometimes it's a bunch of crap but
you'll never know unless you ask the
counter narrative to that is do you
think I was playing around with this
idea that I think in teams people end up
having what I call like a contribution
score
and it's kind of like a credit score but
it's like the historical value of when
you speak whether it's valuable or not
yeah yeah and so like your credit when
you go for um you want to like lease a
car or you want to get a house whatever
if you've got a bad credit score you're
probably going to get shut down upon you
know upon an application yeah yeah if
you've got a bad contribution score I if
you tend to just contribute without
thinking or you're just speaking for the
sake of speaking then when you speak the
first word starts at a lower level of
appreciation that is
God
and you go to so there's the convert
this is a Converse point because it
means you do want to protect your
contribution score you don't want to
just speak for the sake of speaking Yeah
Yeah you know if you're brainstorming a
campaign and I go what about a billboard
right and you look over and you get that
was a [__]
done yeah
but that's the thing is that um you know
it's it's kind of also the same way that
I look at
it failure of ideas
you know oh man that can kill a
h I can kill your creativity
faster than anything else you know it's
not it's not just your contribution
score but it's like you know it's like
if we're like we're in the meaning okay
and here you are maybe you spoke about
yourself maybe I called on you and you
said the thing and everybody in the
room's like oh my God that's actually
that's really smart yes yes we should do
that and then we do the thing and it
bombs oh man
you know this this is when again as a
leader it's like you gotta come in and
protect
the people's Spirit yeah yeah and their
confidence yeah it was like that idea of
failing fast like that's when it really
comes into play it's like oh no no
dust yourself off everybody get up we're
gonna try this again we're gonna try a
different way
thank you for contributing sit your ass
down okay who else has another idea you
know what I mean but making sure that
they're no longer a pariah also you know
but that's your job as a leader to do
that you know it's like this look we we
each have a value and a role to play in
that context right so as the person who
came up with the bad idea or the stupid
contribution
your job isn't to then dust yourself off
and try to come again you know you can
do that but that's really hard to do if
you don't have somebody on the other end
who's pulling you to do that you know
and so my job in that role is to make
sure that you come back
that is my job you know it's not just to
pick the good ideas it's to protect the
people protect the good ideas protect
the bad ideas like make sure they they
keep Rising every time something bombs
because it's going to bomb like you're
not going to get a perfect score all the
time
and it's funny because you're saying I
was thinking it was only a bad idea when
it hit the market yeah that's a good
idea up until then that's an
uncontrollable right no one can so
celebrate probably should be celebrating
the
the running the experiment itself first
is the outcome of the experience yes
that's right that's right that's right
and always you know I I
love Monday morning quarterbacking I
love it you know some people think it's
like a punishment I I really try not to
make it feel like punishment where you
review the thing that happened that went
bad you know and everybody wants to pile
on now now all of a sudden this person
who didn't say one word in the meeting
was like well I knew it was a bad idea
from the start oh I cannot stand those
type of people that look in a meeting
with me you'll understand that's a
that's a wrong thing to say if you're
gonna be the one who says well I knew it
was going to be bad for him to start
well then you should have said that [__]
before we went and executed it otherwise
don't tell me now
you know so it's like the picking a part
of the thing like okay what was the
thing that went right what was the thing
that went wrong what could we have done
differently to get a different outcome
and sometimes it's nothing
the conditions were right the idea was
right it was executed right it just
didn't hit and then sometimes you're
just gonna be like ah just chalk it up
like that it sucks
you know or you do learn something or
just like it was such a great idea in
the room
but then we went outside and we were all
in love with it that we missed the huge
red flag everybody missed it nobody saw
it nobody saw that like actually wasn't
that funny we laughed in the room but it
wasn't that funny you know it's like and
that has happened to me so many times so
many times where it's like
you just fall in love with the thing and
then you go outside and nobody thinks
it's good except for the people who are
in the room with you it's like putting
on a really great outfit at home you
know you just look at yourself in the
mirror you're like oh I am I am just too
cute I'm fine I'm about to pull one a
night
you go outside and and not one person
talk to you
you see pictures later you're like I did
not look like that I know I did it I
swear to you I looked better when I saw
myself in the mirror I can't relate
so that time when you're working in New
York what you're working with Spiker is
agency
I read you took a phone call from an
ex-boyfriend at College who was
in a difficult moment in his life yeah
what did he say on the phone what can
you share you know
I think this is the
part about when you think about things
that you would do over yeah you know
the ways that you would have
reacted differently and torture yourself
about it I do that now
still
even though I've been through a lot of
therapy
even though I know that um
the outcome probably would have been the
same at a different time
you know he suffered
from a from mental illness that I
obviously couldn't diagnose
well we were in a romantic relationship
that now of course looking back with was
toxic
I didn't know
how to help him
and eventually
he decided to end his life by Suicide
and I blamed myself
for a long time to some degree I still
do
you know wishing that I had said
something different
wishing that I had known
better to ask for help
um
wishing I'd just been a better friend or
girlfriend
you know and even now
um I remember writing a post on
Instagram
when someone famous died by Suicide and
um
you know there were all of the things
that people say they're like oh you
never know what somebody's dealing with
or like but you know we're like call
this line if you know you're thinking
these thoughts and all I could like the
only way I could react to it was just
like
but the people who are around that
person
feels like the guilt you feel
the terrible burden you carry for the
rest of your life like what do those
people do
it was like what what hotline is exists
for them
you know how do you manage that feeling
it is a sort of survivor's guilt to some
degree
you know I feel the same about people
who
are survivors of a loved one's terminal
illness
I would never talk about those people
you always talk about the person who's
suffering and I'm not saying we
shouldn't I'm just saying that we have
to consider the entire circle
of people
you know and how do you
give advice
help
relieve the guilt
the sadness the grief the regret
all of those things and it is still
something that I I deal with
in terms of many different types of
grief I've had in my life
mental health and mental illness has
become increasingly
um discussed in society in the last
five ten years when I was a kid I didn't
oh yeah no nobody talked about it it was
a thing
um now it's very popular in conversation
did had he made any indications that he
was suffering and could he could he
articulate yeah that he had mental
health challenges um yes I mean he was
on medication so he knew he was he had
challenges
um
but and look I was I was clinically
depressed as well I was on medication we
were we were both on medication you know
um and the challenge with having any
mental illness is that sometimes you
know how you're diagnosed and you know
that you have to take medication for it
but
maybe we don't feel like you're ill
and he was an artist a musician and so
sometimes as a creative that gets
confused right because you're just like
oh but I need my angst
in order to create you know I pull from
this deep dark well and that's where my
Artistry comes from and he would say
stuff all the time you know he would be
impassioned about you know it's like
well none of it is worth it
you know if this if this doesn't work I
don't know what I'm gonna do
you know or like would be so dependent
on me for his own happiness you know the
things I did would set him off or not
you know so then you are tied to that
person's ups and downs even though it
has nothing to do with you right and
again like look I've had a lot of
therapy to talk about this and so I can
articulate it if it doesn't change the
way that you really feel about it you
know I can academically talk about it
and say oh well you know
he behaved this way and therefore I
behaved this way right we were like a
Tit for Tat type situation
but when you're in it
all you want to do
is to protect that person
you know all I want to do was keep Ben
up that's all
by any means necessary
you know so if it meant that I had to
stay on the phone for six hours
that's what I had to do if I had to miss
my own
meetings and calls and
friends and dinners and that's what I
had to do
did he call you yes around the time yes
yes he called me well
that day he called he was having one of
his episodes you know and was accusing
me of cheating on him or you know
whatever the thing was and I was just so
exhausted it'd been a number of days of
this constant battery
um he was living in Geneva and I was in
New York and so he was you know we were
on different time zones he couldn't see
anything I was doing but was accusing me
of all kinds of things I'm just tired
and so I said I needed to go out with my
friends I'm going to go to dinner of
course you can imagine the battery of
insults you know that he hit me with and
I hung up the phone and just went
and I could hear the phone ringing when
I left my apartment
you know but I thought like he's just
gonna have to cool off and I'll get back
to him I get back
and when I did he had left me a
series of increasingly panicked
voicemails
uh and the last one was the one where he
said he was going to jump
from a bridge
and that was it
and he jumped from a bridge
where are you at with with
um because I know you said you could
kind of look at it objectively but it
doesn't change how you feel about it
yeah where are you at today I mean
you're what two decades on from that
yeah
um he was such a brilliant person
you know a brilliant creative
I
I wish I could have saved him and myself
you know meaning that
um I wish I had known
to ask for help in that situation I
didn't know what to say
I didn't know how to
I didn't know how to articulate
what he was doing or how I was reacting
to it
I thought it was my fault
you know that if I just like loved him
harder
or better whatever better meant
you know that he wouldn't have jumped
I
think about it all the time what would
have happened if I had answered the
phone when I heard it ringing when I was
leaving was that the moment he decided
you know maybe if maybe if I had picked
up the phone he wouldn't have felt
desolate and alone
I think about that all the time
all the time all the time all the time I
mean I
so much so that
I apply that and many other things that
have happened in my life
um in current situations
you know meaning that like if um
there is a situation with a friend who's
going through something or is you know
telling me about some challenge that
they're having
and I feel powerless or I feel like I
don't have the answer
I consider whether or not I am their
last call
and I consider that like okay well what
what else who else can I pull into this
to help because I I don't know what to
do
and by the way
the trauma response to that is that
sometimes it's not even like that you
and I'm saying it's like it's not like
I'm jumping to a conclusion that they're
not even anywhere near but that's where
I'm going because that's my experience
you know and so I'm always considerate
that it's like if somebody's going
through something tough or there's a
friend you know they tell you they're
checking in on your strong friends
again I don't even know what that means
but you know it's like if I have a
friend who I haven't heard from
or I know they're going through
something tough and I call them and
they're not answering or are they I call
them they sound funny to me oh I'll be
the first one to drive over there
and be like I just had to lay eyes on
you I had to see that you're all right
okay you good okay okay you just need
some ice cream all right I got you you
know
but I'm I'm I'm very conscious
of the fact that
people are delicate our lives are
delicate and even when somebody looks
like they got everything together
there might be something really
unsettled right underneath the surface
and so how can I be more conscious as a
friend
now the difference what I've learned in
20 years though is that um
although I consider like could I have
changed
the outcome of that night maybe I could
have changed the outcome of that night
but doesn't mean that he would not have
decided to end his life
and I have also grown in understanding
that it was his choice
it was his choice
it really didn't have anything to do
with me
how a person decides to live their life
or leave their life is their choice and
have to respect it
that's what has changed in 20 years
it's really interesting because you know
we spend so much of our Lives fighting
the choices that other people make yes
especially people we love
yes because you think
you think
you know better yeah for them you can
change it yeah you know you know better
for them yeah yes but that's why I think
the same thing we've been talking about
with intuition that it applies to you
too it's like you think you know better
how somebody else should live their life
and they think they know better how you
should live yours and they're going to
advise you that way that's why it's like
you know when we talk about like
listening to your Intuition or whether
or not you're going to you know March
the beat of Your Own Drum and it's like
look they're going to be people in your
life who love you desperately who want
the best for you and are going to advise
you horribly
this is not their life
they can't help you because they don't
even know where you are they've never
been there before
it might look familiar to them
but they've never been there they're not
in your shoes they don't have your
context so you can advise you yourself
that's the only person
the only one Nacho Mama
not your best friend that you've known
since you were three
not your Mentor who you admire and who
has reached the place you want to go
even they can't do it
you can't do it
they don't know
You Found Love in Peter yes at work yes
you weren't interested in him at first
no
what changed oh it changed
if I had that answer like we could solve
all of Love's riddles right like you
know what's really interesting earlier
on when you talked about let go and let
God it really struck me as a
relationship metaphor as well because we
go through life thinking I want brunette
with this size this yeah
and we we're not we're two we got our
blinkers on and we're too narrow for all
the great [__] people that might come
along like you might have met your
husband or wife already but you were
just so caught up in how they were
supposed to look and how much money they
were supposed to have come on preach
no but it's true but but that is you
know part of it is that um you know when
you say let go and let God it's like yes
the letting go of these you know
preconceptions whether it's for Job or
love or friends or whatever but it's
also the action of being like okay let
me just all right let's go and see what
this is
you know and for me it's like when I met
him yeah he was not my type you know
this like white man who was a ginger for
God's sake
what the hell was I gonna do with that
yeah I was like and he was wearing this
big fat gold chain
two buttons open in his I mean God even
think about it now I'm just like oh how
embarrassing like really seriously you
know but he
um he surprised me we like basically the
story is that he said he wanted to get
to know me he won't take me to dinner
and I was like absolutely not I'm way
too fine for you okay
yes because that is what I also think
and
um I was like look if you want to get to
know me
Mr white man you're gonna read Song of
Solomon by Toni Morrison
and he was literally like I don't even
know what that he was like I no one has
ever even said that to me and I'm like
yeah exactly
go read Song of Solomon by Tony Morrison
and then we can have dinner and talk
about it why that book it was my
favorite book it is still my favorite
book and it's just so
you know it's like look Tony Morrison is
an author
does not come down to your level Tony
Morrison is up here
she's not going to mince words or like
change metaphors or not let you stare at
the uncomfortable realness of being
black
I'm gonna hit you in the face with it
and I was like oh I want to see this
very privileged white boy read this work
and then come talk to me about it
that was my trick
so he came back
very quickly by the way and I was like
oh I'm gonna call this Bluff because
first of all he didn't read it okay and
even if he did read it there's no way he
has a great understanding of that story
or that work than I do
like
African-American an English Lit major
for God's sakes from Wesleyan like and
I'm black
where he knows more
and he surprised me we went to dinner
and he had such interesting insights
and um
you know I mean like love does I was
struck by Cupid's arrow sitting there at
that dinner I swear it was like first
night
fell in love instantly
you moved quickly right oh yeah oh
that was November 9th
2000.
and by January I told him I loved him
also because he had painted me
a
uh his interpretation
of Song of Solomon
oil on campus he'd never picked up a
paintbrush before
the painting now hangs in our daughter's
room by the way
um
and he gave it to me for my birthday
and I man I was like yep he's the one I
want to marry him that's it
and my very Ghanaian father was not into
it
at all did not approve
especially when I said we're gonna move
in together
like we moved in together we'd known
each other for eight months
and we'd already decided we're gonna get
married
and at a year he proposed I said yes
and I was like We're Off to the Races
this is it
what did George have to say about it oh
I hated it hated it when did he mean in
fact oh gosh it was a terrible situation
um well my parents came to visit in like
February so
my mom knew I was very much in love my
dad was not aware and they came to visit
me just as you know coming to visit me
in New York see how I'm doing and I
orchestrated for Peter to come by for
dinner
uh and
also just to set context it wasn't like
I introduced my dad to boyfriends my dad
had never met anyone and so for him to
meet somebody was like well who is this
and what does this mean
you know but
you know he tells it now that he just
thought it was you know me finally
coming into some you know early love and
he just thought it would be you know
something he could dismiss
um but by August when I called him and
said hey I'm going to move in with my
boyfriend
and he was like absolutely not like
first of all this is shameful
okay you're not going to marry this
white person like that that's not going
to work for us you're the eldest what
are your sister is going to think you
can't live in sin
and he was on a business trip to in
China
and without telling me he flew to New
York straight away
uh and did not come to my office to talk
to me about it he went to Peters
showed up in his office
and Peter like calls me and his voice
sounded all funny and crazy and he was
like
um your dad is here and I was like
there's no way I just talked to him
yesterday he's in Beijing he's like no
he's sitting in my office
and I was like I'm on my way and then I
hear my dad in the background like you
will do no such thing this is a
conversation for men
I'm like
what
it's like okay I'll give you 15 minutes
and then I'm there yeah
and to this day I don't know what they
talked about while I was not in the room
but I know that when I got there there
were some they'd brokered some
understanding between each other
and even though my father was still
unhappy with the decision made to move
in with him
he did not stand in the way
and when I eventually married Peter he
walked me down the aisle
what year was it that you married pizza
was it 2001 2003 2003 so you got engaged
in 2001 yeah you met in 2000 yes
okay yeah quickly very quick yeah yeah
and you fall pregnant in 2000 2008 for
the first time eight
were you
ready whatever that means to be a mother
no no no no no no no no no no no no no
no no no
and even think I wanted to be a mother
ever
I wasn't sure that I did
well I was I was in my career had just
begun to like
you know climb in a way that was very
visible to me you're working at Pepsi at
this point I was working at Pepsi and
having really good success
uh and I was
uh I mean influenced by all of the
societal pressures that women have in
the workplace you know that's like look
if you have a baby it's going to slow
down your career
um people look at you differently you
know maybe your attentions are going to
shift and so you thought you were
ambitious about your career but let a
baby come along and now all of a sudden
you want the baby you don't want the
career
I I didn't I didn't want anything to
stop me
from the ambition of getting to the top
you know and also I was just like I'm
having a good time I just don't want to
be responsible for anybody else
and
I found out I was pregnant and I cried
you cried oh what kind of Tears no like
the fugly Tears like the tears that
make you vomit type tears the tear is
that when I called my mom to tell her
she was like stop crying
foreign
the tears that
Peter didn't know how to react to
because he was so excited he was he was
elated
and you know I was thinking
this is awful you know it's like
I don't want to be pregnant
and how do you actually say that when
you know at that point we've been
married for
almost five years we were like coming up
on our fifth anniversary I had a great
job he had a great job we had a
beautiful apartment in Manhattan it's
like
why wouldn't you you know it's like
everything seems perfect right it's like
no one could look at me and say oh
you're in a tough situation you
shouldn't have a baby
you know it felt selfish
to say I didn't want to be pregnant to
become a mother
and I
I went into it
under duress
you know I actually don't think that um
women especially I don't think women
talk about that enough
you know it's like the society's
pressure of like becoming a mother at a
certain stage in life or that if you
become a mother and you don't want to be
even when things are perfect
that that
can also feel like failure
or feel like a trap
it's like somehow you're supposed to get
pregnant and then start glowing
immediately
you know start feeling like all the
motherly feels I didn't feel any of that
I didn't want it
and
to be totally Canon and transparent it
wasn't until I was about five months
pregnant
when there was the first sign that
something might be wrong
with my pregnancy that all of a sudden
it was like whatever that instinct was I
was supposed to kick in when I found out
I was pregnant it kicked in at that
point
you know it's like I went from being
someone who was very Cavalier about the
pregnancy and trying to think about like
oh I got to get my snap back like how am
I gonna get my six back after this is
done you know I went from that person to
the like
well what do you mean
that there's like low amniotic fluid
what does that mean exactly because is
the baby okay like is is this little
homie growing or like let me hear the
heartbeat again you know it's like I it
was it was really that moment that did
it
and very quickly things descended into
hell
I discovered that I had a condition
called preeclampsia it's essentially
when your blood pressure rises in your
body because your body acts like the
pregnancy is like attacking you
and so every cell begins to fight
against the pregnancy
um
I
was forced to deliver the baby early
and she didn't survive
and it was
you know for someone who had not wanted
to be pregnant
it was
extraordinarily
devastating
I think it was a combination of things
you know it's like
I had begun to develop all the
protectiveness of motherhood
you know very much like I felt in Ben's
death
I thought
how could I have been a better mother
to this unborn person
you know what was my failure
in
taking care of myself
so that I could have a healthy child
and it again the similarities are
parallel where it's like look there's
there's nothing I could have done better
the aftermath of that
yes
take me into that moment what was that
what was that your life like in that
moment
I don't gosh how do I even articulate it
I don't know that there is um a word to
describe
the combination of like grief
over something or someone lost that you
really never had
you know with a combination of anger
Raw
Fierce anger at God
for
this situation
at Peter
for
having made the choice in the moment of
crisis when I'm sitting there and in the
bed and the blood pressure is going up
and I'm delirious and the doctor says
you know there's only one choice here
you save her or you save the baby which
one is it
and Peter says we'll save my wife
and I was pissed
because
again the whatever that thing is that
clicked in my head that said protect the
life that is coming first I was like no
you should have chosen that one I've
already lived I've already lived you
should have chosen her you said that's
fine yes
yes it was the beginning of the some of
the big factors in our relationship
that moment
you know and then also feeling like an
utter failure
because it's like
I mean
women since the beginning of time have
had babies apparently easily my mom had
four
you know it's like
stolen Africans were having freaking
babies in fields with no epidurals or
child care
and here I was living a very lavish
lifestyle
having an OB GYN that worked out of the
upper east side of Manhattan
and I couldn't even do that
ah all of those feelings
were
so Raw
and combined
and then on top of it
my
almost debilitating drive to be
successful at it
you know it's like again we just go back
to some childhood things that said well
look
I've gotta I've got to do the thing I've
got to be the best at the thing right
it's like so now okay this has happened
I have all of these terrible scary
emotions that are going on
but I'm gonna beat him up
clearly that's what I set out to do so
now I've got to do it
and so three months after Eve died I got
pregnant
by the way my doctor Pete everybody was
like absolutely not like this is not a
good idea
not my therapist everybody I was like I
don't care I'm gonna do it
not necessarily because
and this is a difficult thing to say
it's it's
not because I necessarily want to be a
mother
I want to do it successfully
I want to prove to myself to my body
that I could do it
you know that like and I I wanted to
like yell at God
and be like
did you take this away because I said I
didn't want it
well okay now now I want it so let's do
it
oh and even when I got sick again
with my second pregnancy I was like look
I'm gonna do everything man I consumed
so many prenatal vitamins boy look
I I would take them by like the Palm
fall and be like
you know and there wasn't I got a
specialist
I had I was taking uh Lovenox or anybody
knows it's like you know this blood
thinner that I would have to inject into
my belly every single day
man I was the most obedient pregnant
woman you've ever seen in your life
and I still got sick
seven months into my pregnancy still
with all of that
and so again it's like look
sometimes there are
situations
that you cannot control like
very much like Ben like he would have
chosen to end his life at some point
with or without my love with or without
me answering the phone
I was going to get ill
with or without the prenatals with or
without a specialist
those are not controllable by me but I
was still trying my best to be
successful to do it well
and when Leo was born
she came out screaming
and I took one look at that girl and I
was like
yeah
you and I were gonna make it
like you who you came here by any means
necessary
and I am going to love you like fiercely
deeply because it just took too much
together here
a year after Leo's birth I believe Peter
and you separated yeah
connected to all of that yes yes
connected to all of that I mean I think
that you know traumas in our life of
course and especially I think it for a
married couple and again for us you know
it's like Peter really wants to be a
father I wasn't sure I wanted to be a
mother we get pregnant
terrible things happen in the pregnancy
we lose Eve
I blame him entirely
and God you know
um he becomes
obsessed with my health
in my next pregnancy he does not want me
to get pregnant I'm like I'm going to
with or without your consent no I'm
kidding but it became
a battlefield in our home and in our
relationship we were no longer
a team what was missing
probably empathy
can probably just
narrow down to that like a very shallow
understanding of what the other person
was going through it's it's remarkable
to me now to think about it you know
it's like how do two people
who love each other so desperately
go through the same
event
and cannot grieve together can't see the
other one's grief how is that even
possible
yeah
just a few years later
he gets diagnosed with cancer
after you've separated yeah
these moments in life can have a
interesting influence on our perspective
how we feel about somebody in a
situation how did it influence your
perspective his diagnosis
Peter was the type of person who
never got sick
you know he'd walk around Manhattan in
winter time with like a
windbreaker
you know he didn't get colds he just
didn't get sick
and even in our separation
um and we
had then agreed to get divorced
um
he was always very like
Valiant
you know he just was not a person who
fell
I don't know how else to describe it you
know that he just wasn't he was just
tall and big and just
barreled through life
and for him to be diagnosed that way
with birkin's lymphoma which is
a cancer that is not curable but at the
time you know as oncologists were like
okay you're gonna do radiation you're
going to do chemo you know there's no
surgery really because it just attacks
the lymph nodes everywhere and there's
no way to get rid of all the tumors or
the best thing to do is try to shrink
them and hopefully they go away
okay I mean who you know we didn't know
any better
but by the time
his cancer was deemed terminal
all of the
anger and misunderstanding and
battles
over the different events in our life
really did not matter
it did not matter and I realized that
like you know that probably sounds so
corny to say and
maybe feels like a throwaway thing that
like oh when you're faced with you know
the finality of life you just realize
that you know you let go no no no it's
not it's not automatic like that you
have to make a choice
we had to make a choice
he had to ask me the question for us to
reconcile
I had to decide that that is what we're
going to do
we had to make a choice to have the
conversations which were about
forgiveness
we had to make the choice to look at
every day and say okay what are we going
to do today
that is going to prepare us for the end
you're a kind of kiss you had with him a
kiss of forgiveness
yeah
I mean it was um
it was unlike the first kiss
in the first kiss where it's like the
butterflies and you're not sure how much
pressure to apply and you know should I
open my mouth a little bit should I give
him a little tongue or no you know it
wasn't that kiss it was the kiss of
knowing
13 years have gone by
in a very complicated relationship
full of
the challenges of being
an interracial couple and
him understanding my experience or not
me understanding his experience and not
you know the challenges of health and
our parents getting sick and
wow
all of the things my ambition for my
career his
you know lack of understanding of that
it was just all of the things you know
and to be in that moment
and then to say okay
we're we're going to be together until
the end
because that's what we promised
you know and to
truly
kiss and make up
I think that's another like casual
statement people say you know kissing
makeup is like no no you like
that Covenant
of like we are in this again
to the end and I won't leave
and you didn't leave no
to the end
to the last heartbeat
how would you say goodbye to someone
you know
I don't know that you do
I haven't
you know there's um
there is the
physical loss of course
right and grief in that is complicated
also you know because no I can't pick up
the phone and call him or he I can't see
his wide smile at something I did or his
scowl if I do something wrong you know
um I have multiple griefs of that I have
grief that Leal will never know her dad
in the way that I wish she knew him
you know he like so desperately wants to
be a father and he loved her so deeply
that like I grieve for her in that not
knowing
but there is also for me
the understanding that
he really is still around
this is where it's like everybody's like
oh
people I'm like sort of you know because
I do believe in like the signs and
wonders of things it's happened too many
times for me not to
you know and it's um it feels very much
like my intuition you know where I'm
just like uh you know I know what he
would have thought about X Y and Z thing
I know I didn't know
you know and so to some degree it's like
I still feel his presence because I am
aware of
how he would be if he were here
quick one you guys know that for years
now my office is quite literally been
everywhere on a plane in the back of my
car in a terminal in an airport or on a
train you name it I've probably worked
there ever since I started my first
business at 19 years old I've been
working on the move all I need is Wi-Fi
a desk and my headphones and I'm set and
one of the places that has always had my
back when I'm struggling to find an
office is wework I've been using wework
for years now whether it's in Manchester
London Manhattan or La wework is easy it
literally requires no thinking there's
no stress of finding the perfect working
location wework does it all for you
plenty of desk space meeting rooms
collaboration spaces drink snacks it's
all there so for your next remote
working trip away from the office or if
you want a new Fresh space to work in
then don't just work anywhere wework
might just be your answer and you can
get 25 off your first six months of
rework all access by using Code CEO
works that's one word CEO works and to
redeem this offer visit we.com
CEO works it's funny every year around
this time of year for whatever reason I
go on a little bit of a psychological
shift and that psychological shift I
think is somewhat inspired by summer but
it's also inspired by the fact that I
want to feel strong in this season of
life and as I age strength training is
my number one form of training and the
question becomes how do you build muscle
and how do you become strong in terms of
supplementation and this is where heels
nutritionally complete protein product
is my best friend for a couple of
reasons one it tastes better than any
protein product I've ever tried two in
terms of the nutritionally complete
aspect it has the vitamin and minerals
you need it's about 100 calories so it's
incredibly light but it also packs over
20 grams of protein into every serving
try The Salted Caramel flavor it is the
bomb and let me know how you get on
despite all of this despite rising over
and over again your career continued on
yeah you work to Endeavor a company that
owned like the UFC and WWE Etc yes yes
yes
um beats Uber Netflix
apple apple oh yeah all the things
it doesn't seem like there was a huge
time for pause and for
you know
because you just seem to get right back
at it all the time I mean that's what it
appears when you look at the
chronological nature of these events
yeah
um
how have all of these personal
tragedies fed into your career and what
role has your career continued to play
in dealing with these personal tragedies
yeah um
well I think especially Peter's death
um
made me impatient
impatience the wrong word but it kind of
feels like impatience with life yes
urgent for sure
the origin life
um because I just have a much better
understanding
of not wasting my timer and my energy
when I look at your story and I see
someone who doesn't hang around if they
don't like something yeah you know yeah
um and this kind of brings on another
point because there's contradictory
career advice often we get it says you
know you should stay somewhere long
enough because if you leave too quickly
then people are going to look at your
resume and think why are we only there
for two years or why were you there for
a little while but then if you know so
like where'd you sit on this
um like when to know to quit and also
there's this overarching phrase which is
like quitting is for losers yes yes yes
oh gosh well look I get criticism
criticism of that all the time where
people are just like oh well she can't
handle adversity
I'm like me are you out of your mind is
like if there was a poster child it
would be me
no no it's not that I can't handle
adversity I just put myself first
are you selfish yes very much so but
that is not a bad thing I am at the
center of my life
no one is above me in my life no one not
even my kid
and she knows that and I try to instill
the same in her no one should be above
her in her life
because the thing is that like look the
life that you're living is yours
and I cannot be a great contributor to
society and this sounds a little like
counterintuitive but I can't be a great
contributor to society I can't be a good
friend I can't even be a good mom if I
am not living the life that I want to
live
if I'm not wholly happy in it so
absolutely I'm selfish when you left
dubia quoted as saying you don't need to
be the Savior I think when referencing
the state of the company because it was
going through a very tumultuous time
yeah you can save yourself too yes and
save yourself first that's what I should
have said
you know it's like it's all of the ways
in which we think about it now right you
get on a plane they're going through the
safety demonstration they tell you to
put your mask on first before you help
anybody else yes
and in your life too
yes save yourself first what was the
career advice that you wish someone had
given you
you know like that young Spike Lee
receptionist
be selfish in your life in your career
think about yourself all of the time
what does being selfish mean like
meaning that when you're in a situation
that doesn't serve you you think of
yourself first
oftentimes or in these situations that
aren't serving us and we're thinking
about how the other person's gonna feel
but that means that I have to be it's
the uncertainty that that creates that
scares people right like well I can I've
got this job and I quit it where am I
going to go and like what am I going to
do if I leave this relationship what am
I gonna do where I'm gonna go well but
you should answer that
I'm not saying that you quit without the
answer I'm saying you quit
you know it's like if you keep putting
it off if you keep saying well I don't
know what I'm gonna do so I'm just gonna
then you're gonna waste your life away
You're gonna be so unhappy you're gonna
have the Sunday scaries all the time
you're gonna feel the ick when you're
with that person you are going to be
unsatisfied with your life and that is
the scariest thing I do not want to be
on my deathbed being unsatisfied with
the life that I lived
I could go tomorrow
and I would be so satisfied with this
life why oh
because I've done the things I've wanted
to do now look I have goals it doesn't
mean I don't have ambition it's not like
I don't want to do the next thing I do
want to go to Antarctica at some point I
have not been yet you know but if I went
now
oh I've lived this life on my own terms
like there's nothing that I did where I
feel like oh man
I should have made a different Choice
what are you good at like when you when
you do the diagnosis of your skill set
and what brought you here because you've
had these incredible incredible
incredible career yeah but you know
we're we're all bad at the loads of
stuff and I think typically people are
good at like a couple of things yeah but
that's enough yeah what are you good at
I'm good at seeing the forest
the whole picture
and sometimes in a forest you know that
like oh you have to clear this area
in order to make space for the little
village
because then those villagers can take
care of the rest of the this part of
forest that is like burning
you know what I'm saying but sometimes
people are only down at the trees and
then they can't see the burning part and
they can't see that they should clear
over there so that those people can get
to the fire
I can see the forest I can I can see the
whole thing and I can see like okay this
needs to move there and it's helped me
so much in my career for sure it's like
the change maker and how does that make
you a great marketeer
never look at a prop
Uber the problem was that there was a
huge campaign that was like delete Uber
right people are like oh they're mad at
the company because of lack of diversity
in the c-suite and they treat women
horribly and they're not paying the
drivers and oh it's unsafe even to get
in the car
and I went in and it's like if I had
just tried to like go after one thing it
would have been whack-a-mole yeah you
know everywhere I did okay pop this one
down and this one pops up you hit that
one and that one pops up but I can see
the forest I can say ah this is not an
issue about whether or not Travis
kalanick hates women or hates black
people this is not about whether or not
your driver is going to kidnap you
this is about trust
do you trust the CEO of the company do
you trust the driver when you get in the
car
do you trust anything about this whole
situation self-driving cars you trust
any of it
if you don't trust it nothing I do is
going to make you like the company I
could fix the issue of like hell make
half of the c-suite people of color and
women and you would still be like yep
the gun kidnap me that the best people
you've encountered in marketing what do
they have in common
they're great storytellers
they can make you believe anything
those are great marketers the ones who
make you believe that you put on a pair
of Nikes and somehow you're now LeBron
James
and how do they what constitutes what
makes a great story
um it's close enough to the truth
for you to believe it yes well when I
put on any pair of shoes I'm no LeBron
James but you probably walk more
confidently it's true
so maybe you weren't LeBron but you're a
better version of yourself
I want to be a great marketer and I'm
currently not what would you you know if
Leo comes to you and she goes mum I want
to work in marketing what's the best
um what do I need to do to become a
great marketer what would you say to Leo
um be more curious about people
ask a lot of questions about people why
do they do the things they do why they
like the things and ask keep asking the
questions like you've got to be really
curious about people in order to be a
great marketer because you can't just
rely on what you know and your
experiences even though I do say that
you should be a focus group of one it's
like if you like the thing maybe
somebody else will like thing if you
makes you laugh maybe somebody else will
laugh it makes you scared somebody else
is going to get scared if somebody
inspired somebody else will be inspired
I believe that but you also have to like
be really curious about why people
choose the things that they choose why
they like the things that they like
if you're not curious about people
you're gonna suck at this job
what's the most important thing we've
not talked about and I really want to
focus this a little bit more there's
going to be so many young people not so
young people that are listening to this
conversation now they look at your
career and they go I wanna walk that
path you know I want to get to I want to
be the CMO of yeah the biggest companies
in the world yeah CEO of this company
what's your parting words to those
people oh gosh that's such a hard one
because the thing is that there is no
there is no path you know if somebody
tells you like do these steps in order
to get to where I've got they're lying
to you you're not going to get there
based on the things I've done the only
way you're going to get there is by
listening to yourself is by following
your intuition is by doing the things
that you're really good at and leave the
rest of that stuff that you're not good
at that other people are trying to
advise you leave that alone so there's
any advice get to know yourself better
that's it
we often confuse
configuration with admiration we can I
can advise someone without aspiring to
walk that path and I think I think you
know I remember reading a poem one day
about like the only great person you can
be is the greatest version of yourself
it's super cliche but it's a completely
because I could not be Steve Jobs or no
Thomas Edison or Martin Luther King no
no it's not my greatness no exactly
don't try to be me
ever
you sure people are still gonna try
there's a closing tradition we have in
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're leaving the question
for and the question left for you is
what moment in your journey made you
fight even harder to get to where you
are right now I mean we we talked about
it it is it is Peter's last heartbeat
you know at that moment
that moment I I it just changed the way
I look at life I just don't want to get
there not having lived exactly the life
that I want
it changed everything for me and so
I
refuse
to succumb to anything that is not
in my destiny for my greatness and my
happiness
that's it
thank you
thank you thank you so much your book is
incredible it's been an incredible
journey of um
truth and vulnerability and humanity and
so many so many of the things you're
clearly I mean now it makes sense as to
why the writing is so good and the
storytelling is so great because you
clearly have a love for words in reading
and storytelling and that comes through
in your work but you've you've walked an
incredible incredible career path that
is just inspiring just on the grounds
that it happened but you have a
remarkable ability to draw wisdom from
that career which makes it even more
powerful so that's exactly what you've
done today thank you so much it's been
an honor to meet you and your your
energy is quite infectious so thank you
thank you thank you thank you for having
me I appreciate it
[Music]
as you know Zoe are a sponsor of this
podcast and I'm a big investor in the
company you guys know I'm really sitting
still because that's just the nature of
my life so whether I'm in a business
meeting with my investments or I'm
recording this podcast I'm always
running from A to B but the one promise
that I made to myself is to fuel my body
sufficiently and Zoe has been really the
key part of me succeeding in that
mission for those of you that don't know
I've been a Zoe member for about a few
months now ever since I had Zoe's
scientific co-founder Professor Tim
Spector on this podcast Zoe helps me to
understand how to make better food
choices for my long-term health and it's
all personalized to me eating the right
food is essential for me to keep me
going because some of my meetings are
often later in the day and so I need to
ensure that I keep my energy levels up
and Zoe allows me to understand which
foods work for me and which foods don't
eating the Zoe way I don't get that
dreaded afternoon crash and I feel great
so to get started with Zoe go to zoe.com
Steven and use my exclusive code
ceo10 for 10 off so many of you've been
asking me for a discount code here it is
ceo10 go to zoe.com
Steven and use my exclusive code ceo10
for 10 off and if you already use Zoe
send me a DM and let me know how you're
getting on
[Music]
foreign